<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <style type="text/css">
            body {
                width:60ex;
                margin:1em;
            }
            h1, h2, h3 {
                font-weight:bold;
                padding-bottom:0em;
                padding-top:1em;
                margin:0;
            }
            h1 {
                font-size:150%;
                text-decoration:underline;
            }
            h2 {
                font-size:120%;
            }
            p {
                padding:0em;
                margin:0em;
                padding-top:1ex;
            }
                
        </style>
        <title>IS202 Project ReadMe</title>
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Get the IS202 Project up and running</h1>
        <p>Below you will find a description of how you create a netbeans
        web application project for the examples in IS202, and what you
        have to do to build and run the application.</p>
        <p>We can not distribute the examples as netbeans project, because your
        computers will be set up in the same way as mine, so it wouldn't work.
        Therefore, you will have to go through the steps below, but you only
        have to do it once (for each project).</p>
        
        <h2>Prerequisites</h2>
        <p>The following software must be installed and working properly
            before you starting working on the project:</p>
        <ul>
            <li>JDK</li>
            <li>TomEE. Remember where you install TomEE. TOMEE_HOME will be
        used throughout this document to refer to the TomEE installation
        directory.</li>
            <li>Netbeans</li>
            <li>You must have access to a database. Preferably, the database
            system should be installed on your own computer, but you can share
            a database server if you are careful. See the warning in
            persistence.xml.</li>
        </ul>
        
        <h2>Importing the project</h2>
        <p>When you have checked that the software listed above is working,
            you can open the project in Netbeans.</p>
        <ol>
            <li>Start Netbeans, and select <code>New project</code> in the
            <code>File</code> menu.</li>
            <li>In the new project dialog, select the Java Web category, 
                and Web Free-Form Web application project. Click next.</li>
            <li>In the next pane enter project location. That is the folder were
                you found this file. The remaining fields should be filled
            automatically. The build script is build.xml in the same directory
            as this file. Project name is taken from build.xml. Project folder
            is the same as the location. Click Next.</li>
            <li>The build and run actions allow you to build and deploy the
            project from Netbeans. Enter the following, if it isn't selected
            automatically: Build Project: build, Clean Project: clean, and Deploy
            Project: deploy. Click Next</li>
            <li>In the web sources dialog enter: Web pages folder: src/html, 
            WEB-INF content: src/conf. Context path is used in the url of the
            application. You should enter the project name in that field. Select
            java EE 5 or later.Click next.</li>
            <li>In the source package folders dialog, click <code>Add Folder</code>
            to add src/java, if it hasn't been selected automatically. Click next.</li>
            <li>In the java sources classpath you will add the libraries that
            the application needs. Click <code>Add Jar/Folder...</code>, and
            navigate to TOMEE_HOME/lib, and select javaee-api-7.0-1.jar, and 
            servlet-api.jar and add them using absolute path. You may click next,
            there is no important settings in the next dialogs, so just click Finish
            to open the project in netbeans. It some settings turn out to be wrong
            you can change them in the project properties dialog later.</li>
            <li>If you open the project properties now (right-click on the project name
            and select properties), go to the Build and run pane. Select deploy in
            run project field. This will allow you to deploy the project by 
            clicking on the green arrow/triangle in netbeans.</li>
        </ol>
        
        <h2>Building and running the application</h2>
        <p>The application uses a database, so you have to configure a database
        connection, also known as a DataSource for the application. This is done
        by setting up a connection  pool in TomEE, and to set up the application
        to use this connection pool.</p>
        <p>The build script needs to know where to find TomEE, for two reasons:
        Jar files from TomEE's lib directory are needed to compile the source,
        and the compiled application will be deployed to TomEE's webapp directory</p>

        <ol start="9">
            <li>To set up a datasource, follow thevinstructions in in 
            src/conf/tomee.xml. If TomEE is running, you may have to restart
            it before it will create the connection pool.</li>
            <li>The next step is to configure JPA to use this datasource. Open
            persistence.xml, and follow the instructions in the comments there.</li>
            <li>Finally, you have to tell the build system (ant), where TomEE
            is installed. Open the file ant/platform.properties. (You will have to 
            switch to the Files view to open it. It is not visible in the projects
            view). Follow the instructions inside the file.</li>
            <li>At last, you can test the project. To compile the soucre code, you
            can right-click on the project name, in the project pane to the left,
            and select Build in the context menu. Or, you can click on the broom
            and hammer icon in the toolbar</li>
            <li>If you havent start TomEE yet, start it now: Go to TOMEE_HOME/bin
            and run the startup script. Back in netbeans, right-click the project
            name and select deploy or redeploy in the context menu. Alternatively
            click on the green triangle in the toolbar (The "run" or "play" button).
            If the process completes without errors, open 
            http://localhost:8080/context in a browser (replace context with the
            project name). You should see the start page for the application.</li>
        </ol>
        
        <h2>Appendix: List of important files</h2>
        <p> The following files are critical for whether the application will work
        or not. If you can't find all of these, try switching to the Files view,
        rather than the default projects view, in the top pane to the left.</p>
        <dl>
            <dt>build.xml</dt>
            <dd>The build script. It contains instructions for how the application
            will be compiled, packaged in a war file, and deployed to TomEE</dd>
            <dt>src/conf/persistence.xml</dt> 
            <dd>This is the configuration file for JPA.</dd>
            <dt>src/conf/web.xml</dt>
            <dd>Web application configuration file. This file is optional, and
            it is not used in this project.</dd>
            <dt>ant/platform.properties and ant/project.properties</dt>
            <dd>Configuration files for the build process. Used in build.xml</dd>
            <dt>TOMEE_HOME/conf/tomee.xml</dt>
            <dd>Configuration file for TomEE. You will configure a datsource here</dd>
        </dl>
    </body>
</html>
